Farmer John's Favorite Operation Editorial! (#6329)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/usaco-1471.mdx

---
id: usaco-1471
source: USACO Silver 2025 January
title: Farmer John's Favorite Operation
author: John Zhou
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_jan25.html)

## Explanation

Let $a$ be $0$-indexed.

The problem asks us to optimize the total distance between each $a_i$ to a fixed number $x$ under modulus $M$.
Thus, let us first consider this problem without the modulus.

> By a well-known property regarding medians, letting $x$ be the *median* of those numbers minimizes the total distance.

Reviewer: just mentioning the property is fine, not need to write well-known

Author: ```suggestion
Letting $x$ be the *median* of those numbers minimizes the total distance.
```

<Spoiler title="Intuition on this property">

Let $m_1=m_2=a_{\lfloor N/2\rfloor +1}$ if $N$ is odd;
otherwise, let $m_1=a_{N/2}$ and $m_2=a_{N/2+1}$.
We note that there are an equal number of indices to the left and right of $[m_1, m_2]$, so anything in $[m_1, m_2]$ is considered an optimal median range.

For the sake of condition, suppose $x$ is outside the range.  Without loss of generality, suppose $x<m_1$.

If we increment $x$ by $1$, distances from all $a_i > x$ will reduce by $1$;
on the other hand, distances from all $a_i < x$ will increase by $1$.
Since $x$ is to the left of the median range, this means that there are more $a_i > x$ than $a_i < x$.
Thus, moving $x$ closer to the median range decreases the total difference, which means that the median range is always optimal.

</Spoiler>

Now, we consider the problem when there is a modulus.
First, we mod each number by $M$.
Under a modulus, we note that it is possible to make *any* number a median by subtracting $M$ from an appropriate amount of largest elements, or by adding $M$ to an appropriate amount of smallest elements.

> For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ under mod $24$, we can make $17$ the medium by adding $24$ to $1$ and $3$, resulting in $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ under mod $24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $24$ to $1$ and $3$, resulting in $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.
```

> We thus prepend $a_i$ subtracted by $M$ and append the $a_i$ increased by $M$ to $a$.

Reviewer: this reads like you are doing it for one element

The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$ will be the original elements;
we enumerate over them, and compute the amount of elements before and after the original element we choose to make the latter a median, and compute the total absolute difference using Prefix Sums.

The final answer will be the smallest result over all such indices.

## Implementation

> **Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \log N)$
```

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <algorithm>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

void solve() {
	int n, m;
	cin >> n >> m;
	vector<long long> a;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		long long value;
		cin >> value;
		value %= m;
		a.push_back(value);
	}
	sort(a.begin(), a.end());
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) a.push_back(a[i] + m);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) a.push_back(a[i] + 2 * m);

	vector<long long> prefix_sum;
	prefix_sum.push_back(a[0]);
	for (int i = 1; i < 3 * n; i++) prefix_sum.push_back(prefix_sum[i - 1] + a[i]);

	long long ans = 9e18;
	for (int i = n; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		// Compute minimum total difference from each a[i] to the x.

> 		// We treat "median" as the right median if n is even, and decomposite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// We treat "median" as the right median if n is even, and decompose
```

Author: Thanks.  I was sleepy.

	long long ans = 9e18;
	for (int i = n; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		// Compute minimum total difference from each a[i] to the x.
		// We treat "median" as the right median if n is even, and decompose
		// into left and right calculations (since absolute value argument sign
		// changes)
		long long cost = 0;

		// Compute cost for difference between all elements on the left (smaller) to the
		// current value
		if (n % 2 == 0) {
			// If n is even, then sum for the next n/2 - 1 elements.
			// This is sum of (a[j] - a[i]) from j = i-(n/2-1) to j=i-1.
			// The a[i] gets factored out of the sum, and results in the below:
			cost += a[i] * (n / 2 - 1) - (prefix_sum[i - 1] - prefix_sum[i - n / 2]);
		} else {
			// For n/2 elements
			// This is sum of (a[j] - a[i]) from j = i-(n/2) to j=i-1.
			cost += a[i] * (n / 2) - (prefix_sum[i - 1] - prefix_sum[i - n / 2 - 1]);
		}

		// Right side of the current value (larger).  Always n/2 elements to the
		// right. Sum of a[j] - a[i] from j=i+1 to j=i+n/2.
		cost += (prefix_sum[i + n / 2] - prefix_sum[i]) - a[i] * (n / 2);
		ans = min(ans, cost);
	}
	cout << ans << endl;
}
int main() {

> 	int num_cases;

Reviewer: Can you rename it to test_num

Author: Sure!

	cin >> test_num;
	for (int test = 0; test < test_num; test++) solve();
	return 0;
}
```

> </CPPSection>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

</CPPSection>

<PySection>
```py
T = int(input())
for _ in range(T):
    N, M = map(int, input().split())
    nums = list(map(int, input().split()))
    rems = sorted([x % M for x in nums]) #only remainder matters
    S = rems + [x + M for x in rems] #unwrap the circle

	#prefix sums for fast lookup of operations needed
    prefix = [0] * (len(S) + 1)
    for i in range(len(S)):
        prefix[i + 1] = prefix[i] + S[i]

    min_total = float('inf')
	
	#try every way to unwrap the circle
    for i in range(N):
        j = i + N
		mid = i + (N-1)//2
        median = S[mid] #median to minimize operations

		#ops to move smaller remainders up to median
        left = mid - i + 1
        left_sum = median * left - (prefix[mid + 1] - prefix[i])

		#ops to move larger remainders down to median
        right = j - (mid + 1)
        right_sum = (prefix[j] - prefix[mid + 1]) - median * right

        total = left_sum + right_sum
        min_total = min(min_total, total)

    print(min_total)
``
</PySection>

```

@johnzhou721 i added my python solution from the other pr. feel free to look over it.

also the ` `` ` in my suggestion needs to be fixed to a ` ``` `. for some reason a ` ``` ` in a suggestion gets parsed weird so i had to write it as ` `` `

author: John Zhou, Raagav Bala
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_jan25.html)

## Explanation

Let $a$ be $0$-indexed.

The problem asks us to optimize the total distance between each $a_i$ to a fixed number $x$ under modulus $M$.
Thus, let us first consider this problem without the modulus.

Letting $x$ be the *median* of those numbers minimizes the total distance.
In the case that $N$ is even, any number between the two numbers in the middle (inclusive) would work.

<Spoiler title="Intuition on this property">

Let $m_1=m_2=a_{\lfloor N/2\rfloor +1}$ if $N$ is odd;
otherwise, let $m_1=a_{N/2}$ and $m_2=a_{N/2+1}$.
We note that there are an equal number of indices to the left and right of $[m_1, m_2]$, so anything in $[m_1, m_2]$ is considered an optimal median range.

For the sake of condition, suppose $x$ is outside the range.  Without loss of generality, suppose $x<m_1$.

If we increment $x$ by $1$, distances from all $a_i > x$ will reduce by $1$;
on the other hand, distances from all $a_i < x$ will increase by $1$.
Since $x$ is to the left of the median range, this means that there are more $a_i > x$ than $a_i < x$.

> Thus, moving $x$ closer to the median range decreases the total difference, which means that the median range is always optimal.

Reviewer 3: Imo I think this whole section can be heavily simplified as the logic to show that a median is optimal in this case is not this long, but I'll let it go :|

Author: gonna tighten wording but I think this way is more intuitive

```suggestion
Let $m_1=m_2=a_{\lfloor N/2\rfloor +1}$ if $N$ is odd;
otherwise, let $m_1=a_{N/2}$ and $m_2=a_{N/2+1}$.
There are an equal number of indices to the left and right of $[m_1, m_2]$, so anything in $[m_1, m_2]$ should be optimal.

For the sake of contradiction, suppose $x$ is outside the range.

If we increment $x$ by $1$, its distance from all $a_i > x$ will reduce by $1$, and distances from all $a_i < x$ will increase by $1$.
Since $x$ is to the left of $[m_1, m_2]$, there are more $a_i > x$ than $a_i < x$.
Thus, moving $x$ closer to $m_1$ decreases the total difference.

Using similar logic for $x>m_2$ gives that the range $[m_1, m_2]$ is optimal.
```

</Spoiler>

Now, we consider the problem when there is a modulus.

> First, we mod each number by $M$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, we consider the problem when there is a modulus, starting by modding each number by $M$.
```

> Under a modulus, we note that it is possible to make *any* number a median by subtracting $M$ from an appropriate amount of largest elements, or by adding $M$ to an appropriate amount of smallest elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Under a modulus, *any* number can be made a median by subtracting $M$ from a suitable amount of largest elements or, conversely, by adding $M$ to a suitable amount of smallest elements.
```

> For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ under mod $24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $24$ to $1$ and $3$, resulting in $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to $1$ and $3$, resulting in $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.
```

We thus subtract every element in $a$ by $M$, and prepend it to $a$;

> we also add every element in $a$ by $M$, and append it to $a$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We prepend to $a$ a copy of $a$ with $M$ subtracted from every element, and append a copy of $a$ with $M$ added to every element.
```

The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$ will be the original elements;

> we enumerate over them, and compute the amount of elements before and after the original element we choose to make the latter a median, and compute the total absolute difference using Prefix Sums.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$ will be the original elements. We enumerate over these indices, and compute the amount of elements before and after the original element we need to select to make the latter a median, computing the total absolute difference using Prefix Sums.
```
Sorry, I really dont like the usage of "enumerate", it seems fancy for no reason if u really disagree Im not gonna push it tho your choice.

Reviewer 3: Maybe cuz my english not rly that complicated tho 😭

Author: Nah enumerate was bloat imma remove it thx so much

```suggestion
The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$ will be the original elements. For each of these indices, we compute the amount of elements before and after it we need to select to make the it a median, and then compute the total absolute difference using Prefix Sums.
```

The final answer will be the smallest result over all such indices.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \log N)$ per test case

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <algorithm>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

void solve() {
	int n, m;
	cin >> n >> m;
	vector<long long> a;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		long long value;
		cin >> value;
		value %= m;
		// The first n elements are - m.
		value -= m;
		a.push_back(value);
	}
	sort(a.begin(), a.end());
	// The middle elements are the original modded elements, so add back m.
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) a.push_back(a[i] + m);
	// Last elements are +m
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) a.push_back(a[i] + 2 * m);

	vector<long long> prefix_sum;
	prefix_sum.push_back(a[0]);
	for (int i = 1; i < 3 * n; i++) prefix_sum.push_back(prefix_sum[i - 1] + a[i]);

	long long ans = 9e18;
	for (int i = n; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		// Compute minimum total difference from each a[i] to the x.
		// We treat "median" as the left median if n is even, and decompose

> 		// into left and right calculations (since absolute value argument sign

Reviewer: can you use multiline comments for longer comments

		// changes)
		long long cost = 0;

		// Compute cost for difference between all elements on the left (smaller) to the
		// current value
		if (n % 2 == 0) {
			// If n is even, then sum for the next n/2 - 1 elements.
			// This is sum of (a[j] - a[i]) from j = i-(n/2-1) to j=i-1.
			// The a[i] gets factored out of the sum, and results in the below:
			cost += a[i] * (n / 2 - 1) - (prefix_sum[i - 1] - prefix_sum[i - n / 2]);
		} else {

> 			// For n/2 elements

Reviewer 3: Code looks fine, just use multi lined comments like Sosuke said.

			// This is sum of (a[j] - a[i]) from j = i-(n/2) to j=i-1.
			cost += a[i] * (n / 2) - (prefix_sum[i - 1] - prefix_sum[i - n / 2 - 1]);
		}

		// Right side of the current value (larger).  Always n/2 elements to the
		// right. Sum of a[j] - a[i] from j=i+1 to j=i+n/2.
		cost += (prefix_sum[i + n / 2] - prefix_sum[i]) - a[i] * (n / 2);
		ans = min(ans, cost);
	}
	cout << ans << endl;
}
int main() {
	int test_num;
	cin >> test_num;

> 	for (int test = 0; test < test_num; test++) solve();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	for (int t = 0; t < test_num; t++) solve();
```

	return 0;
}
```

</CPPSection>
<PySection>

```py
T = int(input())
for _ in range(T):
	N, M = map(int, input().split())
	nums = list(map(int, input().split()))
	rems = sorted([x % M for x in nums])  # only remainder matters
	S = rems + [x + M for x in rems]  # unwrap the circle

> 

Reviewer 3: Comments?

---
id: usaco-1471
source: USACO Silver 2025 January
title: Farmer John's Favorite Operation
author: John Zhou, Raagav Bala
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_jan25.html)

## Explanation

Let $a$ be $0$-indexed.

> The problem asks us to optimize the total distance between each $a_i$ to a fixed number $x$ under modulus $M$.

Reviewer 3: Why the fancy language?? Just say

"The problem asks us to minimize $a_i - x % M$ for all i belonging to [0, N).

Author: ```suggestion
The problem asks us to minimize the sum of $|a_i - x|$ for $i\in[0\ldots n)$ and an $x$ of our choice under modulus $M$.
```

<Spoiler title="Intuition on this property">

Let $m_1=m_2=a_{\lfloor N/2\rfloor +1}$ if $N$ is odd;
otherwise, let $m_1=a_{N/2}$ and $m_2=a_{N/2+1}$.
There are an equal number of indices to the left and right of $[m_1, m_2]$, so anything in $[m_1, m_2]$ should be optimal.

For the sake of contradiction, suppose $x$ is outside the range.

If we increment $x$ by $1$, its distance from all $a_i > x$ will reduce by $1$, and distances from all $a_i < x$ will increase by $1$.
Since $x$ is to the left of $[m_1, m_2]$, there are more $a_i > x$ than $a_i < x$.
Thus, moving $x$ closer to $m_1$ decreases the total difference.

Using similar logic for $x>m_2$ gives that the range $[m_1, m_2]$ is optimal.

</Spoiler>

Now, we consider the problem when there is a modulus, starting by modding each number by $M$.
Under a modulus, *any* number can be made a median by subtracting $M$ from a suitable amount of largest elements or, conversely, by adding $M$ to a suitable amount of smallest elements.
For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to $1$ and $3$, resulting in $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

> We prepend to $a$ a copy of $a$ with $M$ subtracted from every element, and append a copy of $a$ with $M$ added to every element.

Reviewer 4: we should explain WHY we do this - i.e cuz we can make any a[i] wrap around modulo M so we consider each case and we never would have anything more optimal than one wrap-around (my wording is kinda bad but you get what i mean right)

---
id: usaco-1471
source: USACO Silver 2025 January
title: Farmer John's Favorite Operation
author: John Zhou, Raagav Bala
---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_jan25.html)

## Explanation

The problem asks us to minimize the sum of $|a_i - x|$ for $i\in[0\ldots n)$ and
an $x$ of our choice under modulus $M$. Thus, let us first consider this problem

> without the modulus.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The problem asks us to minimize the sum of $|a_i - x|$ for all $a_i$, using an $x$ of our choice, and taking each difference modulo $M$. Thus, let us first consider this problem
without the modulus.
```

altho i think it's technically $\min(a_i - x \bmod M, x - a_i \bmod M)$ or something like that

Author: Is there a footnote functionality?  I mean i'd love to see this laid out explicitly but I don't think it'd justify space in the main contents.  Spoiler/Info for a single line is also bad.

Author: Added a note in parenthesis

the case that $N$ is even, any number between the two numbers in the middle
(inclusive) would work.

We now consider the modulus. First, take each number modulo $M$. Observe that any element can be the median if we add or subtract $M$ from some elements, shifting some values to the left and right of the element. For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to elements $1$ and $3$, resulting in the array $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

Thus, every element is a candidate for $x$.
We compute the cost for each $x$ after shifting, and take the best candidate, which is the $x$ that results in the smallest sum of absolute differences.

To compute the smallest sum of absolute differences, we note that we never have to adjust elements by $M$ twice to make something a median.
Thus, we prepend to $a$ a copy of $a$ with $M$ subtracted from every element, and
append a copy of $a$ with $M$ added to every element. The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$
will be the original elements. For each of these indices, we compute the amount
of elements before and after it we need to select to make it a median, and then

> compute the total absolute difference using Prefix Sums.

Reviewer 5: i think i understand what you mean here, but the clarity can potentially be improved ?

correct me if i'm wrong but you're essentially stating:
- sort $a$
- consider some element $a_i$, and let there be $l$ elements to the left (smaller) and $r$ elements to the right
- in the case where $n$ is odd, if $l != r$, then we shift either some prefix of the array (left elements) to the right by adding $M$, or some suffix of $a$ by subtracting $M$, and calculating the absolute differences that way
- we handle $n$ being even similarly
- impl using prefix sums

and the prepend / append stuff is just a clever way of implementing that

i'm too lazy to rewrite for an example, but i think this would benefit from defining some terminology and explaining the thought process more --- imo you don't necessarily need to explain the exact implementation as much

Author: I think this can be rewritten as a simple order switch.  odd/even is impl detail explained in comments, so no need to mention that.

```suggestion
To implement this, we first sort $a$.
Then, we consider every element in $a$ for a potential $x$, and compute the amount of elements before and after it that needs to be present to make it a median.
After that, we use prefix sums to compute the total absolute difference.
However, this requires us to access indices of $a$ that are not in the $[0, n)$ range;
to mitigate this, we prepend to $a$ a copy of $a$ with $M$ subtracted from every element, and
append a copy of $a$ with $M$ added to every element.
The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$ will then be the original elements we enumerate over, and we will be able to access the elements that come before or after the original array.
```

@eysbutno does this look good?

---

[Official Analysis (C++, Python)](https://usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_jan25.html)

## Explanation

The problem asks us to minimize the sum of $|a_i - x|$ for $i\in[0\ldots n)$ and
an $x$ of our choice under modulus $M$. Thus, let us first consider this problem
without the modulus.

Letting $x$ be the _median_ of those numbers minimizes the total distance. In
the case that $N$ is even, any number between the two numbers in the middle
(inclusive) would work.

<Spoiler title="Intuition on this property">

Let $m_1=m_2=a_{\lfloor N/2\rfloor +1}$ if $N$ is odd; otherwise, let
$m_1=a_{N/2}$ and $m_2=a_{N/2+1}$. There are an equal number of indices to the
left and right of $[m_1, m_2]$, so anything in $[m_1, m_2]$ should be optimal.

For the sake of contradiction, suppose $x$ is outside the range.

If we increment $x$ by $1$, its distance from all $a_i > x$ will decrease by
$1$, and distances from all $a_i < x$ will increase by $1$. Since $x$ is to the
left of $[m_1, m_2]$, there are more $a_i > x$ than $a_i < x$. Thus, moving $x$
closer to $m_1$ decreases the total difference.

Using similar logic for $x>m_2$ gives that the range $[m_1, m_2]$ is optimal.

</Spoiler>

> something like this?

Reviewer 5: im ngl it would be easier to just link CPH here (CPH 6.4)

also remove the "something like this?" comment

Author: ```suggestion
<Spoiler title="Intuition on this property">

Let $m_1=m_2=a_{\lfloor N/2\rfloor +1}$ if $N$ is odd; otherwise, let
$m_1=a_{N/2}$ and $m_2=a_{N/2+1}$. There are an equal number of indices to the
left and right of $[m_1, m_2]$, so anything in $[m_1, m_2]$ should be optimal.

For the sake of contradiction, suppose $x$ is outside the range.

If we increment $x$ by $1$, its distance from all $a_i > x$ will decrease by
$1$, and distances from all $a_i < x$ will increase by $1$. Since $x$ is to the
left of $[m_1, m_2]$, there are more $a_i > x$ than $a_i < x$. Thus, moving $x$
closer to $m_1$ decreases the total difference.

Using similar logic for $x>m_2$ gives that the range $[m_1, m_2]$ is optimal.

</Spoiler>

```

Author: done

$M$ from a suitable amount of the largest elements or, conversely, by adding $M$
to a suitable amount of the smallest elements. For example, given
$[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to

> $1$ and $3$, resulting in $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

Reviewer 4: something like this?

Now we bring the modulus back in. First, mod every number by $M$. The key insight: any element can be forced to become the median, by adding or subtracting $M$ from the set of other elements to shift them to the other side. For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to $1$ and $3$, giving $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

This means every element is a candidate for $x$: for each one, we can compute the minimum cost to shift the rest of the array (by $\pm M$ to maintain congruence) so it becomes the median, and take the best candidate over all of them. Then we can use the same argument to show taking the array members is optimal median construction.

Author: ```suggestion

something like this?

Now we bring the modulus back in. First, mod every number by $M$. Note that any element can be the median by if we add or subtract $M$ from some elements to shift them to the other side. For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to $1$ and $3$, giving $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

Thus, every element is a candidate for $x$.  We compute the cost for each $x$ after shifting, and take the best candidate.
```

cut fluff

> Thus, every element is a candidate for $x$.  We compute the cost for each $x$ after shifting, and take the best candidate.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We now consider the modulus. First, take each number modulo $M$. Observe that any element can be the median if we add or subtract $M$ from some elements, shifting some values to the left and right of the element. For example, given $[1,3,7,9,13,17,19]$ and $M = 24$, we can make $17$ the median by adding $M$ to elements $1$ and $3$, resulting in the array $[7,9,13,17,19,25,27]$.

Thus, every element is a candidate for $x$.  We compute the cost for each $x$ after shifting, and take the best candidate.
```

We prepend to $a$ a copy of $a$ with $M$ subtracted from every element, and

> append a copy of $a$ with $M$ added to every element. The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$

Reviewer 4: also add a line on why only these 2 (+-m)(since it's not optimal to shift more than once) might just be me on this one tho

Author: Let’s say this implicitly since it’s intuitive enough but hard to rigorous

```suggestion
Since we never have to adjust $M$ twice to make something a median, we prepend to $a$ a copy of $a$ with $M$ subtracted from every element, and
append a copy of $a$ with $M$ added to every element. The range $[n, 2n)$ in $a$
```

will be the original elements. For each of these indices, we compute the amount
of elements before and after it we need to select to make it a median, and then
compute the total absolute difference using Prefix Sums.

> The final answer will be the smallest result over all such indices.

Reviewer 5: you haven't explained how we determine which shiftings are best and that stuff

Author: Done!

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N \log N)$ per test case

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <algorithm>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

using namespace std;

void solve() {
	int n, m;
	cin >> n >> m;
	vector<long long> a;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		long long value;
		cin >> value;
		value %= m;
		// The first n elements are - m.
		value -= m;
		a.push_back(value);
	}
	sort(a.begin(), a.end());
	// The middle elements are the original modded elements, so add back m.

> 	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) a.push_back(a[i] + m);

Reviewer 5: braces on statements (applies to all)

Author: done

	// Last elements are +m
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) a.push_back(a[i] + 2 * m);

	vector<long long> prefix_sum;
	prefix_sum.push_back(a[0]);
	for (int i = 1; i < 3 * n; i++) prefix_sum.push_back(prefix_sum[i - 1] + a[i]);

> 	long long ans = 9e18;

Reviewer 5: use `LLONG_MAX` instead

Author: +1

		 * We treat "median" as the left median if n is even, and decompose
		 * into left and right calculations (since absolute value argument
		 * sign changes)
		 */
		long long cost = 0;

		// Compute cost for difference between all elements on
		// the left (smaller) to the current value
		if (n % 2 == 0) {
			/*
			 * If n is even, then sum for the next n/2 - 1 elements.
			 * This is sum of (a[j] - a[i]) from j = i-(n/2-1) to j=i-1.
			 * The a[i] gets factored out of the sum, and results in the
			 * below:
			 */
			cost += a[i] * (n / 2 - 1) - (prefix_sum[i - 1] - prefix_sum[i - n / 2]);
		} else {
			// For n/2 elements
			// This is sum of (a[j] - a[i]) from j = i-(n/2) to j=i-1.
			cost += a[i] * (n / 2) - (prefix_sum[i - 1] - prefix_sum[i - n / 2 - 1]);
		}

		// Right side of the current value (larger).  Always n/2 elements
		// to the right. Sum of a[j] - a[i] from j=i+1 to j=i+n/2.
		cost += (prefix_sum[i + n / 2] - prefix_sum[i]) - a[i] * (n / 2);
		ans = min(ans, cost);
	}
	cout << ans << endl;
}

int main() {
	int test_num;
	cin >> test_num;
	for (int t = 0; t < test_num; t++) solve();
	return 0;
}
```

</CPPSection>
<PySection>

```py

> T = int(input())

Reviewer 5: we typically use lowercase variables (applies to all)

Author: @raagavb Can you handle this?

Author: Also rename T as test_num
